So if you're new, we've been journeying through the books of 1st and 2nd Samuel following the life of David.
And last weekend, we read David, the king, his last words.
And in his last words, David had this sense that God's spirit was speaking through him.
The songs that he wrote, the things that he penned, and one of the last things that he wrote were these words.
God, you've made an everlasting covenant with me.
You've arranged it and you've secured every part so that you could bring salvation.
David had a sense that he was looking not at his own kingdom, but another king to come, a king named Jesus who would come from his line.
And David has this sense that that kingdom is coming and worth fighting for.
And then in David's last words, we see his mighty men, the men who fought for him.
And there's something about people's last words that have weight.
David's last words.
God is speaking through me.
There's a prophecy of a king to come.
And they're going to be mighty people that fight for that kingdom as well.
That brings us to Jesus, the last words of Jesus.
What were his last words and what do they mean?
Well, we see two places in the Bible where Jesus gave his last great commandments and commissions to his disciples, his mighty men.
And the first one we see is Matthew chapter 28.
It's called the Great Commission.
Here's what Jesus says, some of his final words.
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father,
and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and teaching Him to obey everything I've commanded you.
And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age.
Jesus has already lived with His disciples.
He's already died on a cross.
He's already been raised from the dead.
And now He's going to give His disciples their final orders.
Last words, He says, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
Therefore, I've got all the authority, more authority than David ever had.
Jesus, I have all this authority given to me from heaven, and I'm giving it to you.
So go in that authority and make disciples, baptize people in the name of the Father, the Son, the Spirit, and teach them everything I've commanded.
And I'm going to be with you always.
Now here's the mysterious part of that.
After he says this, the book of Acts,
describes this moment where Jesus ascends to heaven and the disciples are just looking, like he left.
And he said he's gonna come back one day, but wait, didn't he say he's gonna be with us always?
How are we gonna do this great commission without him?
Oh, well, let me point you to the last thing Jesus said to his disciples in Acts chapter one.
He says, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea, in Samaria, and to the ends,
of the earth.
In other words, the way that I'm going to be with you is I'm going to pour out my spirit and he's going to live in you.
He's going to give you wisdom you don't have and power and strength you don't have and boldness you don't have.
In fact, Jesus told his disciples this in John 14.
He says this, you are going to do greater things than I did because I'm going to the father because I'm leaving.
Now, I'm a disciple of Jesus.
I'm like, wait, I've seen you heal people.
I've seen you feed thousands of people.
I've seen you still raging water into still.
I've seen you do crazy stuff.
And you're saying that your followers are going to do greater things than you because you're leaving.
And Jesus is like, yeah, these are my last words exactly.
I'm going to give you the gift of my Holy Spirit.
And he's going to empower you to go, not just to Jerusalem, to the city you live in.
But Judea, people like you who live not as close to you.
to Samaria, to people who aren't like you at all, people who maybe have grudges against you, where there's a different culture, there's a mistrust.
In fact, the gospel's not just gonna go there, it's gonna go to the ends of the earth.
And so go and make disciples.
And so if you look through the book of Acts, which is the history of the early church, you see this happening.
And I'm gonna give you just a basic form.
I'm gonna summarize the entire book of Acts in three sentences.
Here we go, first sentence.
How does God build his kingdom?
Number one, God uses ordinary people.
If you're an ordinary person, just raise your hand for a second.
He's a regular person.
God uses regular people.
One of the biggest dangers as a Christian is to read the Bible and sort of have this idea of all these heroes, all these amazing people who did all this amazing stuff.
And I could never be like that.
Now these people are just like us, we are just like them, ordinary people.
The book of Acts is full stories of ordinary people.
Second, he fills them with his spirit.
It's an ordinary person, like a jar of clay, and fills them with extraordinary power, a power that's bigger than them.
Paul says to the Corinthians, how many of you were wise when God called you?
How many of you were influential?
How many of you were noble birth?
How many of you were the people?
That doesn't need you to be extorted.
He needs you to be ordinary and available.
And when he fills you with the spirit, then, well, look at the third idea.
Then he sends them out to change the world.
The simple idea, ordinary people filled with the spirit of God sent out to change the world.
And that's the book of Acts, God doing impossible things through ordinary people.
Now, a couple
A couple of days ago, we got back from a trip to Greece.
Our church took a couple of buses.
We flew into a couple of buses all through the footsteps of Paul.
And I'm just gonna show you just this visual of the mission trips of Paul.
We got to see the actual places like Philippi.
We got to stand by the river where the first convert Lydia gave her life to Jesus.
We got to see the prison where Paul and Silas sang at midnight.
We get to go to Thessalonica and Berea and Athens and Corinth and Ephesus and get to go in the actual footsteps of Paul.
An ordinary person changed
the gospel.
It's amazing to think about how the Great Commission actually happened in just the first few decades after Jesus ascended to heaven.
As you're at these places, you're like, wow, this is what I'm reading in my Bible.
It's coming to life.
As you look at that map, you're like, okay, so the gospel went to all these little cities, but how did it get to the whole world?
I want to say that the gospel didn't stay in those cities.
The gospel rippled out from those cities.
And as you read the book of Acts and the letters, you get names of all these people that you might not have noticed in your Bible that we're traveling to a city and then going to another city and they kept taking this message.
Jesus is the son of God.
He's come from heaven to earth.
He's come to die in our place.
He's come to bring redemption and transformation to our lives and to the world.
He is the Messiah and it started
Ripley now, it started going like wildfire all throughout these places.
In fact, Paul only went to this city called Thessalonica for three weeks.
And after three weeks, not only did a church take hold, but watch Paul's description of what happened with that church.
It's 1 Thessalonians, chapter one, verse eight.
He says, the Lord's message rang out from you, not only in Macedonia in a KI.
Your faith in God has become known everywhere.
So, so check this out.
This church that Paul only has three weeks to tell them who is Jesus and what does it mean to live for Jesus and how to live out the Great Commission?
Three weeks, three weeks of discipleship, not only does this church take root in this city, but it spreads to Macedonia, the region, in a cave, the next region and goes all the way to the ends of the earth because this is how the kingdom of God grows.
Ordinary people filled with the spirit of God sent to change the world.
And as you look at the end of the story in the book of Acts, it starts with everyone looking up, how are we going to do this?
And it ends with this picture of the Apostle Paul, who's traveled 10,000 miles.
And he didn't travel in a bus coach on an airplane.
He traveled by walking and going in very antiquated ships.
I mean, some really rough journeys.
10,000 miles, Paul walked or traveled to share the gospel to the ends of the earth and listen to how
The ending description of Paul is in the book of Acts on the last page, Acts 28, verse 30.
For two whole years, Paul stayed there in his own rented house and welcomed all who came to see him.
He proclaimed the kingdom of God and taught about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance.
Paul is on house arrest.
He has a chance to live in a little rented apartment where people can provide food for him, and his door is open.
He doesn't care who you are,
He doesn't care if you're Roman.
He doesn't care if you're Jewish or Greek.
He doesn't care if you're slave or free or rich or poor.
His door is open.
Come sit at his table.
He wants to tell you about who Jesus is.
Go and make disciples of all nations.
Teaching them to obey everything.
This is Paul's life.
He's consumed by this.
And so when we think about our mission statement as a church, our first generation of Calvary, 40 years, our mission has always been to make disciples.
These are the last words of Jesus.
It's a great commission.
And so we want to make disciples filled with the Spirit.
But our vision statement, the one we share at all of our campuses is to reach our community and to change our world.
Now how do we get reach our community?
Well, it's what we see in the book of Acts.
And there are these powerful images of God reaching people.
One of the ones that comes to mind in Isaiah chapter 52 verse 10, where the Bible says, God will bear his arm, his mighty arm.
to reveal His salvation to every nation.
Think about this image.
God says, I'm gonna bear my arm.
I'm gonna reach out my arm so that every nation, every people can know the hope I have or that they have in my son, Jesus.
This is God's love for the nation.
I thought you were grateful for God's love for the nations.
And so we wanna be the people that reach out beyond us.
But changing our world, I mean, this isn't seeing kind of presumptions that we can change the world.
Like who are we?
But listen to why our vision statement contains those words.
Change the world.
It actually comes from the book of Acts.
It comes from a group of people living in Thessalonica who were introduced to the first Christians.
And they say this as an insult, but it's actually a compliment.
Listen to how the Thessalonians describe the coming of Christianity to their city.
These men who have turned the world upside down have come here.
In other words, everywhere these Christians go, they don't just start churches.
They look at places of injustice and they bring light and hope.
They look at areas of idolatry.
They bring truth and grace.
Everything they do is disruptive to the world that is.
We don't want them in our city, but this is the beauty of the gospel.
We are against the world for the world.
We speak the truth of the gospel to bring repentance to people, to bring transformation to people's lives and cities, and it's always going to be disruptive.
Everywhere Paul went, there usually was a riot that followed him because he's bringing the kingdom of God to light in an area of darkness.
And so in the early church, every time the gospel came to a city, it turned the world upside down, or should we say, upside right.
How many of you know this world is broken and confused and lost in darkness?
And this world needs to be turned upside right because the values of the kingdom of God come.
And how does God do that?
He bears his arm to reach every nation.
And what are we called as Christians?
We are called the body of Christ.
We are his hands and we are his feet and God wants to take ordinary people.
Yes.
Filled with the spirit of God to change
the world.
And this is what we see happen then.
And this is what we want to be now.
To see the same God who was yesterday and today is the same God forever.
The church is plan A to get the gospel out to the world to build the kingdom of God, which means what does that mean for us?
Now I'm going to ask you just for a moment to turn to Romans chapter 16.
Because again, we can often
have this sense of hero worship, like, oh, all those amazing people, like last weekend, we heard about David's Geburim, 37 men who were mighty warriors, Eliezer, who stood his ground, Shama, J.B., Abishai, Ben and I. I mean, these exploits of these mighty men of God called the Geburim, following their king, King David.
But Romans 16 is another list of about 36 names of Geburim who fight for Jesus in the kingdom of God.
exploits look very ordinary.
Interesting, right?
That the battles we fight and the way we fight is New Testament Christians is different than the way they fought battles back then.
Romans 16 is full, like 35, 36 names of ordinary people like it opens with a woman named Phoebe.
A deacon or a deaconess, she's delivering the letter of Romans for Paul to this church.
I mean, that's a significant responsibility that she
Bears, you look down at this list, you see Priscilla and Aquila co-workers, they risk their lives for Paul, what I have no idea, how they did that, but everywhere Paul goes, they seem to be going, opening their home, being generous in new ways.
And when you read down this list of all these people, you're not going to recognize hardly any of them.
And that's precisely the point.
Men and women who plant churches, men and women who work hard in the gospel.
a man named Rufus and his mom, the mom who says she's like a mom to Paul.
And you start to see all of these names that seem so ordinary, men and women, Jews and Gentiles, slave names and free people's name, royal people and common people, all on this same list, all because they've made a decision to say yes to Jesus, ordinary people, filled with the Spirit, sent out to change the world.
And on this trip,
Those footsteps of Paul, we just got the sense that when we're in these places, all these names that I had read in the Bible for so long began to come to life and began to see how in simple ways of generosity, like Lydia, being saved, inviting Paul into her house, hosting the church
The first church of hell if I happened in her house, funding Paul as you went to Thessalonica and being a gospel patron to make sure he had the resources he needed to continue to travel and you see all the richness of the beauty of these very anonymous people.
And this is how God always loves to build his kingdom because at the end of the day, every name will fade away and we'll remember one name, his name is Jesus.
Aren't you grateful for King Jesus and the way that he works in and through his people?
And so we've been telling stories.
We've been talking about this idea as a church that we are shaped by the songs that we sing and the stories that we tell, and we've been busy telling stories.
And the reason we're telling you stories comes from John's gospel.
You see, this bookshelf is already full of stories we've told over the last 40 days of our next generation leading our church in worship and discipling those who are younger and bringing the gospel to their campuses.
Bookshelf is full of stories of men and women who were lost and brokenness and addiction and darkness who found freedom in Jesus and how we're leading others.
And as we think about this beautiful picture, we think about what John wrote.
This scripture has formed me, has formed us as a church.
We read it several years ago in a reading through the gospel of John.
John is an old man, the last living disciple of Jesus wrote this.
Jesus did many other things as well.
And if every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written.
And the more I read this line, the more I loved it.
John's 90 years old.
John's trying to rack his brain.
I've told so many stories and so many stories.
I've been told, but there's so many more.
And if I kept on writing them down and the whole world couldn't contain the books, and this is that would be written, which means
This curious question, what other stories is Jesus going to write in and through his people?
Ordinary people filled with the Spirit sent to change the world.
God is still writing stories today, right?
In and through his people.
And so when we tell this global mission story, what we want to be conscious of, he's
putting burdens and giving us experiences that we wanna pay attention to because listen, this is not just about activity.
We do all this stuff.
We build more stuff to make the name of Calvary great.
Listen, no.
We do this because the activity of God is directly connected to intimacy with God.
You see, the same Isaiah who wrote God is gonna bear his arm and he's gonna reveal his salvation to nations.
But when he was a younger man, he had this vision of God.
where he saw God and thrown in the temple, the train of his robe, filled the temple, angels were saying, holy, holy, holy, and he feels undone.
But then he gets so close, so close to the conversation between the Father, the Son, and the Spirit that he hears them ask a question.
Who should we send?
Who will go for us?
And Isaiah was close enough to hear the question and he said, here I am.
send me our activity to build the kingdom of God always needs to come out of our intimacy with God.
And so I want to share with you a story.
Actually, my wife is going to share with you a story of a burden and experience that God placed in her heart 18 years ago and how that led to building the kingdom of God in another country far from here.
Please welcome my wife Suzanne.
Good morning, Calvary.
So here's a little bit of my story.
So it was in 2007.
Doug and I were invited to go on a vision tour to Ethiopia to see the work of Compassion International.
We saw firsthand poverty and starvation, but mostly an absence of hope.
I remember being overwhelmed by the sadness, and that sadness was captured in a picture I snapped of a little boy in the streets about Addis Ababa.
He was the age of my youngest son, and his desperate eyes broke my heart.
As we drove onto the property of compassion, Doug and I got to see the difference it as well as other Christian programs were making in the lives of vulnerable children.
And as we put onto each site, children would rush to envelop us with laughter, and joy, and you could literally see the difference in their eyes.
And we got to see that difference in the eyes of our sponsor child, Abraham.
It was a look of hope, of promise, and of a future.
It was on that vision tour that it felt like God gave me a glimpse through his eyes.
Beautifully broke my heart.
and planted a seed in me.
When I returned home, I hung some of the pictures in our hallway of Abraham and others, so I would never forget.
And for the next couple of years, I would regularly stop in front of those pictures and begin to weep, thinking about that little, beggar boy, and ask the question, God, why did you let me experience that?
And what do you want me to do with it?
I had often heard about stewarding our resources, our time, our money, our talents, but I had this recurring thought that I couldn't shake.
How do I steward my experience?
What do you want me to do, Lord, with what I encountered?
I've heard it said that when you have something that makes you weak, it's always good to pay attention and to lean in, for it might be a space where God wants to use you.
Sponsoring children with compassion became a family tradition, as each of our sons chose a child their own age.
Years later, we traveled to El Salvador to visit the new Calvary Church plant in one part of the country, and also to meet our son, Hayden's sponsor child, Jeremiah's, and another part of El Salvador.
There, our sons saw the impact of sponsorship, and I was instantly reminded of Ethiopia.
Back at the church property of Calvary and Susal, we stood on the land that we were about to dedicate, and Duknay dreamed aloud, what if, what if one day this church could have its own compassion program?
And Calvary back home could sponsor the children and send teams to visit.
And that's where the seed planted years earlier began to grow.
After years of faithful work by the team at Calvary and Susal,
that dream became reality.
It was 2022, 10 years later, that we hosted Compassion Sunday here at all of our campuses.
But this time, every child sponsored was at one of our own compassion sites.
Because God didn't just open a door in El Salvador, he also opened another in Mexico.
And I'll never forget that weekend, watching all of our campuses respond with such generosity, sponsoring every single child at both sites.
I had the honor and privilege of
The very first child enrolled in the project, it was a little girl named Carito.
When we flew down for the grand opening and finally met her, I'll never forget the look and the eyes of those families, evidence of the transformation that only the gospel of Jesus can bring to a community.
And now every year, we lead trips to N.C. Sal, taking a team of cavalry women who come to lead outreaches to the families we serve there.
These trips don't just change the lives of the kids and families we serve, they change us.
They make us more like Jesus as we're confronted with poverty, with injustice, and the overwhelming needs of the poor.
Being in the middle of the work of God that he's doing is the best place we can ever be.
So this past August, just two months ago, our incredible mission team of Calvary women went to end Sosel, and it was on the opening night of worship.
Carito, she's now nine years old.
She ran over, she sat next to me, and she leaned over, and she said, Sosela, this is my favorite song.
We were singing what a beautiful name.
And at that moment, she just sang at the top of her lungs.
This beautiful little girl singing about her love for Jesus.
I just sat there and began to weep at the goodness of God.
For me, it was a full circle moment because it had been 18 years since that first call to go to Ethiopia.
And through the people we met and the burden the Holy Spirit put on hearts, it all led to this very moment because this is our God.
a God of all nations who goes after the one.
And for me, it was a young girl named Karita who's singing the same song I was singing.
What a beautiful name it is, the name of Jesus.
And so Calvary, I want to encourage you, pay attention to the burdens God places in your hearts and the dreams he puts in your minds.
They're not an accident.
They're an invitation to join the mission of God wherever it will take you.
God doesn't need any of us to accomplish this mission, or just ordinary people.
But it is a holy privilege to join him in the great adventure of bringing the good news of Jesus to the nations.
I love that girl.
It's such a privilege.
to be able to experience the grace and love of God, because he came after all of us.
When we did not have hope, when we did not have light, when we did not know the way up, it's such a privilege to be able to not just receive the love of God, but to pass it on to someone else.
And this is what the church has the holy privilege to do, go and make disciples.
Jesus does not need us, but he wants us to experience the joy of seeing
people's lives come back to life, that transformation.
There is no greater adventure in your life than following Jesus.
And so pay attention to the burdens, pay attention to the experiences.
One of the men and women that God used to plant seven or eight churches in Mexico and a bunch of different schools and then that rippled out to other places.
This is a man named Robert Aguio.
Robert was from Mexico.
And he came here, I met him in the early 2000s, very involved in the leadership of this church and his wife and the school.
And we went on a mission trip to Romania.
And he was growing in such beautiful ways here.
And then this question, who will go?
And this bird in the god Plasin to go back to Mexico.
And I want you to watch Robert's story to see again how God works through ordinary people filled with a spirit to go and change the world.
Even though I grew up in Mexico, I wasn't born here.
I lived in a couple of cities and ended up in Mexico City.
And that's kind of the place where I first remember growing up.
As I was growing up, my dream was always to go and live in the U.S. Ended up in the last two years of high school, was then boarding school in the U.S. And then from there went to the university.
And pretty much I was there.
That's where I was going to be and continue the rest of my life.
I actually came to know Calvary Chapel in Florida.
Somebody invited me to church.
After being in the different churches, for me, it was like, this is what I would have been looking for.
And the next year, I was offered a job to come in to work at CCA.
It was the year three of CCA.
And there we felt at home.
This was a place where we were supposed to be.
I was working in the evil's nest.
Robert was just growing in his role as an administrator.
He loved his job.
We have a good life.
We have a house.
The kids are doing well at school.
Somebody asked me, where do you see or something next five years?
I was like, oh, here.
I see my, you know, this was a place I wanted to be.
He was required to teach a missions class, not to be, to be a missionary.
That was not the, his idea.
But, you know, the Lord had other plans.
And he comes home and he, and he tells me, we need to talk.
And that's when he told me, and I think the Lord's calling us to go to Mexico.
The Lord put on my heart to come back and start a Christian school.
He reminded me of the need there was for Christian education in Mexico.
The Lord really began to speak to my heart and saying, you know, this is the reason that you, you know, since grew up in Mexico, I've given you the language, you know, the culture, you know, the people, you know, you can go back and
do the things that you've been taught, the things that you've learned, and put them into practice in Mexico.
Something like CCA in Mexico was kind of my goal.
So we began looking at different cities, and Merida was one of the ones that I remembered.
I'd actually never been there before.
And then I said, I wonder if there's a Calvary Chapel there.
So I put Calvary Chapel, Merida, and I popped the Calvary Chapel that's here.
One of the last things on the web page
as prayer requests was to start a Christian school in the next two years.
That was that pastor's prayer request.
So to us, that was like the confirmation like this is the place.
This is where the Lord wants us.
But we actually never looked anywhere after that, after we saw that and this is where we're at now.
The influence to school system here in Mexico has from the education is more of a kind of a liberal
more of a Marxist influence in there.
So we saw the need and we started with teaching the word and teaching education through that biblical lens.
First year, year one, 2006, we started with six and it was 12.
Around year three and four, school just started growing, like it just exploded.
So this is kind of the area where the school was.
The building that we bought was kind of where that entrance is over there.
You can't see it.
And then in back, we have a parking lot kind of PE area.
It was kind of this, almost this half the block building.
We saw the growth as it went from year to year from zero to, you know, ended up in
When we left around 550, I think it was, they were learning about a relationship with Christ and what that meant and who Jesus was.
And we saw the results of that as the parents themselves later were being reached because they had a desire for values, but they didn't really know, have them connected to anything.
And as they begin to see the connection to Jesus and to God's Word, they begin to be kind of sent one to know more.
Growing up, it was kind of challenging for me because
and not really to a public school where all the kids were kind of rude to me or mean to me.
And there are a lot of situations in the public school that happens that does not happen in Calvary because it's where I feel loved and where I feel that I belong to.
The teacher always paying attention or looking for you and taking care of you and your relationship with God.
I wasn't expecting to become a teacher at first, but I would say it feels great.
Pastor Robert and teacher Damadi is this school.
Always taught me all these battles and about love.
And is that what I wanted to teach them?
Vallety is one of those examples of this same student in a different school probably wouldn't have finished, but through our school, but also personal coaching and to her life.
You know, the Lord can do great things.
In 2014, we got into the point we'd built the whole school, kindergarten through high school.
I trained up people to kind of run it.
So that was when the Lord became, made me a little restless, okay, what's next?
And just through a lot of different events, once again, starting from scratch, from nothing, beginning the church, and later on beginning the lighthouse school, the second school, we started.
When we left the first school that we'd built up, it was like, how are you going to leave that school and just leave it with the church?
It's not.
My, in a sense, legacy, it's the Lord.
So I'm here to prepare it and to build it and pass it on to the next person.
The Lord taught me that lesson to show me when it's time to hand something off.
He gives you that peace and he also gives you this as the focus of I'm going to continue to use this and you are going to start the next step in my plan for you.
It's a missionary.
in this training of leaders, training of teachers, training of missionaries and pastors.
That's kind of been like a third hat, I wear.
One of the things we've done here in Merida is looking at all the different Calvary temples.
As a church in Calvary Centro, we have kind of a direct oversight of five different missions.
So we have Calvary Tabi, Cho Chola, Ochocaba, Tisbaka, Tisimin, and then also Motu,
Originally, it was just like a grass, you know, palapa hut.
And then actually, CCA kids came and built this.
We did this for like a storage.
We had like a tortilla kind of milk for the corn we used there previously.
They roofed that first part and then we also roofed with them.
We have a team that came down and they helped roof the second, put the roof on the second part.
But this is the sanctuary right now.
I mean, we've been coming here
Now, let's see, 18 years.
In Tabi, we have our compassionate sight.
We've seen families and kids their lives have been touched when you not only bring the word, but also bring help in education and medical help.
They're very much more open to listen and to do something with the message that we're given.
This is our next project, the church building.
We've been
finishing the roof so they can actually put in, and they've been getting this ready.
This is the next step.
They're gonna put in the crossbars and then put the roofing, the roof on next.
And after the roof, then we'll have to do work on the floors and the rest part, but the roof is on its way.
Step one.
When I started this journey, I had no idea of all the adventures the Lord was gonna take us on.
And I can tell you, look back and say it was worth every moment.
The difficult, the hard times.
More than the buildings and the school and the structures that we've done, I think it's the people around us and I look at their lives that motivates us to keep going.
I think that's the most important part.
I do say, oh, I did two schools, planted so many churches as just numbers.
But more, I can talk about this person or that person about this life or that life and the adventure of following the Lord and seeking Him and going on this journey made everything worth it.
It's easy to get comfortable where we're at, but I think sometimes when we get too comfortable, the Lord is the one that kind of refocuses us and shows us there's more that I want you to do.
The Lord's saying, I want you to depend on me and show you what I want you to do.
Those are those difficult
decisions that we have to make.
And then they're not always easy, but then we see the fruit of the.
Ordinary people filled with the spirit of God sent out change world.
Robert and Mars, they experienced that.
And I love what is, we're not just building buildings, we're building people, we're building the kingdom of God.
And it's not about us, we're gonna pass it on to the next generation.
And when I think about the first generation, the first 40 years of Calvary, we have received this rich legacy, not just of outreach locally, but outreach globally, this great commission.
I mean, as I look back at all that's been done in the first 40 years, I see
58 churches that were planted, 24 around the globe, 155 church partnerships, 30 different nations, over 100 missionaries, over $75 million invested in these local and global initiatives.
And that's been given to us as a legacy from the first generation of Calvary.
So can we just take a moment and celebrate the generosity and faith and courage of the men and women who have gone before us?
And our prayer is God, do it again.
Do it again now in this generation.
because Psalm 145 says that one generation commands or tells or declares the works of God to the next.
And so we want to share with you some of the stories of these global missionaries who served here for 20 plus years all over the world.
And I thought, why not have you hear it through the eyes of someone who's a next generation leader?
You see, because if this is just, missions is for the
The parents and the grandparents and the kids don't catch it.
We're going to miss a huge part, but I remember coming here and it was just normal that we would take our six-year-old sons on mission trips so they could see and experience the broken to the world.
Listen, if you want your kids to have a great experience, skip Disney World this year and take them to El Salvador or Colombia or Mexico.
I promise you, it will open their eyes to not just the broken to the world, but the great adventure of following Jesus.
Just consider it.
I'm not, this is not a Disney Haiti thing.
It's just kind of an opportunity for you to consider.
Samma came here and she was 15.
She was immersed in this mission, let's go environment.
And I want you to hear her story as she introduces our global missionaries.
Samma.
Good morning, Calvary.
I'm here to share with you guys about the first time I remember a fire being lit in me for global missions.
It was back in 2017.
I wrote in my journal about wishing I could just pack up and go tell people about Jesus.
But I also knew God was still preparing me, mostly because I was still in high school.
Two years later, I went on my first mission trip through CCA with the Eguayos.
I'll never forget the overwhelming and humbling experience of witnessing God's deep love for people in these towns and villages I would have never known.
But God knew them.
And that was only the start of many more trips God would take me on from then.
But what I want to share with you today is not about me.
It's about some men and women who I look up to as heroes in the faith.
Mighty warriors for God who accepted the call to make disciples in hard to reach areas.
ordinary men and women, empowered by an extraordinary God.
You see, in Africa and the Middle East, our missionaries are bringing the gospel to highly persecuted and impoverished regions, and God, He is bringing revival, whether you see it or not, to people who are accepting Him despite the cost.
For example, Paul and Marcia Cowley
They've served in Kenya for over 20 years through the two Bible schools they started in the largest slums of Nairobi, equipping hundreds of pastors and ministry leaders, reminding them that God sees them.
David and Chris Lawrence, they are training Christian leaders in the Middle East to share the gospel.
They're translating biblical resources and displaying the love of Jesus tangibly in one of the least reached regions of the world.
Claudia Rengo was sent from Calvary to Uganda in 1999.
While serving at Good Shepherds' fold and teaching the Bible to young children, she's been a mom to hundreds over the years, while also fostering and adopting children of her own.
In Europe, we have missionaries bringing the light and joy of Christ to dark places, where a post-modern culture has convinced people they don't need Jesus.
Cornell and Karen Baker are just one example of this.
They serve in Romania through their church and after school program, making a space for all the marginalized and forgotten Roma people to belong and grow in their faith.
And all across Central and South America, we have missionaries who are planting churches, ministering to people in jails, convalescent homes, schools, and just being the hands and feet of Jesus.
And some of them include Fernando Rodriguez and Diana Gomez, who serve in Cuba, the country my family's from.
Despite the hardships and struggles the people face there every day, God, he has not stopped building his church.
Alexander and Carolina Diaz serve on the small Colombian island of Día Rabomba, where children are highly susceptible to exploitation.
Through their ministry, some of the most vulnerable children and families in the country are choosing to follow Jesus.
And then Jose and Ufami Amaro, who serve in Ecuador, are bringing God's word to communities with some of the highest crime rates and much brokenness.
Yet God, he has not stopped showing up to rescue and restore.
And there are so many others that I can't share in this time, but the last family I want to share about is especially close to my heart, the Allegrates.
Juan Sandra and their daughter, Eileen, who serve in Peru.
I just got back from a trip with them in August where we witnessed God's faithfulness to their church and orphanage, their refuge of hope.
Not only was I welcomed into their thriving and growing church family that they planted 12 years ago, but I witnessed God's redemptive power in the refuge.
You see, Peru is one of the worst countries in the world for domestic abuse in the home.
After years of opening their own homes,
To children suffering abuse in their community, the community literally gifted them a property in the church's name to start an orphanage.
God just kept providing in every possible roadblock he removed.
He even called a young couple who are only 21 and 22 years old to be houseparents.
They've been a family to these four brothers whose dad brutally murdered their mom.
And in the last year or so of this family being together, the boys have started counseling at the refuge, lived in a whole and healthy family.
They've improved in school and made friends in church.
They came in aggressive and hurt, but the boys that I personally met, they were kind, they were respectful, they were joyful, and they were just kids.
They had so much fun with me.
And all of this is a testimony of God's power.
Because His salvation, forgiveness, His healing and redemption, it is for people of every nation.
It's just like we sing and read in Revelation that we will all stand one day before the throne and before the Lamb.
People from every nation, tribe, people and language, crying out and worship to God because salvation belongs to Him alone.
That's why Jesus said, go therefore and make disciples of all nations.
No one is too young and no one is too old to start.
It starts here, but it does not end here.
So my question to you, Church, is are you willing to get uncomfortable to obey that command from Christ to make disciples of every nation?
Thank you, Sammy.
And so all the way back to Jesus' last words, go and make disciples.
Be filled with my spirit.
Ordinary people fill with the spirit they go and they change the world.
And here's the thing, our response is important because Christianity is not a spectator sport.
It's not something where we clap on at the faith of others.
We ask, what about me?
When God says, who will I send?
We want to listen and post your hearts.
And so we want to provide a few opportunities, things for you to think about because we just gave you just like a small little glimpse of what God is doing all around the world.
There's so much more, if we share all the stories of all the people and all the churches and all the work of Calvary through the last 40 years, it would take us hours.
We just want to give you a highlight and just begin to get you to thank God.
Is there some experience you've given me, some resource or gift you've given me?
Maybe you're from Mexico or Colombia or the place you were born or raised or the people that you love in another place.
Maybe God wants to use you and plan to see for you to reach people in those countries.
And so we just want to provide some of the opportunities.
I'm gonna ask you to scan the code that I put up earlier because on this code, you're gonna see, again, all of our global missionaries a chance for you to pray for them because these works are fueled by the people of God.
If you go into the lobby, you'll meet them, you can grab one of their prayer cards
and pray for Pastor Fernando and his wife Diana and Cuba.
And hear what's happening in Cuba.
If you're from Cuba, go to their table.
If you want to have a heart for Prue and orphan care, then talk to the Alleges.
You want to see what's happening in the Middle East and just pick up these prayer cards and begin to commit to pray that God would shape your heart for the people who live to the ends of the earth that they can come to know Jesus because this is God's heart.
So secondly, we provide mission
trip opportunities.
You can actually go on an adventure to these places and meet other Christians in, and not just bring support, material support and encouragement, but you can also be changed.
And if you go on that QR code, you'll see all the different mission ships.
You can go to Romania, you can go to Peru, you can go to Guatemala, you can go to Mexico, you can go to Columbia.
All these places are opportunities for you to show up and experience again God's heart reaching out to the ends of the earth.
And then finally, you can give.
You can invest, all of these works are fueled by the generosity of the people of God.
For the first 40 years, we've taken the ties and offerings and gifts and personal support and been able to fuel these works.
And listen, there's so much more to do.
There are more churches to plant, there are more schools to build, there are more ways to create sustainable energy sources like solar in places where diesel generators are running schools and hospitals and churches.
And there are ways that you can use your gifts to serve
those people who desperately needs to know the love of Christ.
And in the process, you will be changed.
And so, Calvary wanna invite you to this great adventure.
And here's what we also want you to know.
Next weekend, we are gonna have a chance to commit, to give to this vision.
There's a local aspect of this vision and a global aspect.
All of our campuses, all together, because we have the same origin story, we share the same mission, and we have the same passion to reach our community and change our world.
We've been praying for 40 days.
We've been considering for 40 days.
How do we invest in this vision?
And if you're an investor, I just want to say this.
If you're an investor, you're always looking for what is my return on my investment?
I can promise you when you invest into the kingdom of God, into these global works.
And to work that reach people for Jesus, your eternal return on an investment is going to be so far beyond what you could ever get in any kind of stock exchange or bond or hedge fund or any other stuff, because it has eternal value.
It will last to heaven.
And so next weekend, here's what's going to happen.
If this is your home church.
We're gonna come at the end of our service.
We're gonna place our vision pledges in a very public way in these five gallon buckets because that's our origin story.
And we're gonna celebrate the faithfulness of what God did.
And then we're gonna pray God, do it again.
What you did in the past, do it again in greater ways in South Florida, across the world through digital platforms.
Jesus, draw people to yourself and use your church to do it.
Now, for those of you who are like, Calvary's not really into the public giving thing.
I just wanna give you a biblical stamp.
You can look this up.
There are three times in the Old Testament where God called his people to give publicly.
When Moses built the tabernacle, the call was to give publicly and the people gave so much, Moses had to tell them to stop giving.
We hope that happens next weekend.
David, when he's building the temple of God,
gives out of the nation's wealth, his personal wealth, and all the leaders follow, and all the people are filled with joy, and the temple is built, they have more than enough.
And then in Ezra and Nehemiah's time, when the temple needs to be rebuilt, the people of God are called out publicly to pledge and to give, and that's the moment we're gonna be in.
We've done this twice in the first generation of Calvary.
This is not a moment we do all the time, but we believe this is the moment, and so we pray as you pray this week, as you search your heart, that as we go on this two year journey,
that you invest into this division.
And so we're looking forward to those moments next weekend.
And now I want you to stand at all of our campuses.
And I want us as one people to just hold our hands out here and we're gonna offer ourselves to God because we are ordinary people.
We are filled with God's spirit and He has called us to change the world.
Let this be our prayer.
Father, we are your people called by your name.
When we were in darkness, you came after us.
When we were lost, you searched for us.
And Jesus, you saved us.
And you've been transforming our lives.
And as we have freely received the gospel, now we wanna freely give with our generosity, with our prayers, with our lives, with our skills, with our gifts.
Father, I pray for any particular burden or experience that's right now on the minds of everyone who stands.
Any particular passions, Father, that you would help us to pay attention to what your spirit says, and we would follow you wherever you take us, even to uncomfortable spaces.
Jesus, make us curious.
Make us uncomfortable.
Shape us and reshape us to reach people, to be on mission with you.
Jesus, we want to be
world changes, a generation of world changes that pass it on to the next generation and the next and the next, because we have received this unbroken message of the gospel.
And now it's our turn.
Help us to be your arm that reaches your mouth that speaks, your hands that hold those
who are in desperate need of your love.
So we offer ourselves to you, our resources to you, our gifts to you.
And we say, Jesus, what you did in the past, do it again and through your people.
And we pray this in Christ's name.
Amen.
Can we give God praise for being the God who came after us, the God who loves the people of every nation?
And then we would take this legacy and use it for his glory.
Now as
We wrap up, I just wanna say these next five minutes are the most important five minutes for a few people in this room who have not made a decision to follow Jesus and I'm gonna ask you just, as you stand, to pray.
The reason we are so passionate about this great commission to go and make is because of what Jesus did for us, because the fact is there are people in this room, there are people watching online that haven't made a decision to follow Jesus.
And you might not know this, but the reality is the Bible says you are separated from God, by your sin.
Now, maybe you don't use the word sin a lot, but I'm just going to do a quick survey.
How many people in this room are sinners?
And a lot of us that raise our hand, we are sinners, but we are saved by grace.
We identify with Jesus who died in our place and who paid our sin debt.
So this isn't a room of good people and bad people, of righteous people and unrighteous people.
It's a group of sinners.
Some who have received forgiveness and transformation in the gospel, and some who have not yet.
And here's what we want.
We want everyone to leave here knowing that they can have a relationship with the living God through a son, Jesus.
They can be forgiven for their sins because of what Jesus did.
And by receiving the gospel and believing it and repenting and saying, God, I've been living my own way apart for you.
And now I want to follow, in that moment, you can be saved and forgiven.
You can be filled with God's spirit.
You can be an ordinary person filled with God's spirit who can change the world.
And so if you've had that sense of like, I believe in God, but I got questions and I got these issues in my life and I don't know how to do it all together.
And listen, in all that, God wants to draw you into his love, into his peace, into his grace.
And so here's how we do it here.
We play this song at the end of our service.
We affectionately called the altar call bow in a moment where you can respond to the invitation of Jesus.
If you're thirsty,
He can give you living water.
If you feel that sense of, I got this sin, I don't know what to do with it.
He wants to take that burden of sin.
He wants to take away that shame.
Your greatest need, the greatest need you will have in your life is to find forgiveness for your sin.
He's the only one.
He's already paid that debt.
He's waiting for you to receive that gift.
And he gives you the chance to say, no, thank you.
But we pray today, you put your arm down.
You humble your heart.
And you receive this lavish gift of forgiveness and adoption and grace.
So if that's you, we're going to say, as the song begins to play, step into the aisle and walk up here.
And we're going to pray a very simple prayer with you and for you.
And if that seems very intimidating, a room full of thousands of people, just listen, when you step into the aisle, this room will spontaneously break out into applause.
Because we know what this is like when we made this decision to follow Jesus and we can't wait
for you to discover that.
We love you, we've been praying for you.
This is your moment.
As this song begins to play, step into the aisle, come forward and pray this prayer with us.
Come on.
celebrating the work of God in your life, and we are so honored and privileged to be part of this moment where you pray this prayer.
You're about to say the most powerful words that will ever come out of your mouth in your entire life.
The Bible says, by your confession.
Jesus is Lord.
By your belief that God erases from the dead, you will be saved.
Jesus has been waiting a long time for this moment.
Because he knows your story, he knows all the places you've wandered, all the places you've gone, all the things you wish you could do over, all the regrets you carry, all the disappointments you have.
He knows all that about you and he's about to bring some redemption to those places of brokenness.
He's about to take, not just the guilt of your sin away, but the shame.
He didn't just pay for us since he took the shame of our sins.
He's about to fill you with his spirit.
He's about to write your name in the book called The Book of Life in Heaven.
Listen, if your name is in this book, the Bible says you inherit eternal life.
And listen, we're not going to sing another song, but as people continue to come up, we just want you to know that it is not too late.
We want to give you this last moment to say, listen, I want to go to heaven.
I want to be forgiven.
I want God's work in my life.
I want to be a relationship and not just a religion.
Listen, this is how much Jesus loves you and He's given you this moment.
Not all moments are created equal.
This moment has weight.
And if you feel your heart beating in your hands, sweating and you just wanting to be out of this moment, know that it hits his love that's compelling you to come.
Because his plans for you, his dreams for you are way better than your plans for yourself.
He loves you.
All right.
I'm really glad you're here.
That's a good friend.
And now I'm gonna ask you just to repeat a simple prayer out loud after me.
This is supposed to be my words, but this is your prayer of confession to God.
And so I just say this out loud to God.
He's gonna hear this prayer and he's gonna answer it.
Say this, say this to God.
Lord God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today I repent.
Now fill me with your spirit.
and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
I pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen, guys.
Congratulations.
Welcome to the family of God.
So before you go back to your seats, I'm going to ask you for five more minutes.
To follow me over to this room, this is the most important decision you've ever made.
We want to process it with you.
We want to give you a Bible, meet you personally.
So if you can go this way, I'll meet you over there at church.
Let's give them a hand as they go.
And let's close with a song of praise.
Let's sing with all of our hearts who are Savior Jesus, who is worthy of our praise.
If you need prayer for anything at all, our prayer team will be right up the front, ready to pray with you.
If not, have a great rest of your Sunday.
We'll see you next week.
See ya.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word belief to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ and to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses.
you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.